And this morning in our comments, we're going to talk a bit about the headship arrangement.
That aspect of Jehovah making sure things take place decently and by arrangement.
For many people in the world, the headship arrangement is a distasteful thing.
In fact, our comments even mention that many women today feel oppressed by it.
But why do they feel this way?
Is it the fault of the arrangement?
The answer is no.
The headship arrangement is a perfect arrangement, a loving arrangement from Jehovah.
More often the problem lies in how the humans in the arrangement discharge their responsibilities.
But for a moment, consider three reasons why we can say that the headship arrangement
is perfect, it is loving from Jehovah.
The first reason is that Jehovah's wisdom is seen in the headship arrangement.
I invite you to turn with me to the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 11.
And let's read verse 3 where the headship arrangement is laid out.
And let's look for that.
How is wisdom shown in this arrangement?
1 Corinthians 113.
It says, but I want you to know that the head of every man is the Christ.
In turn, the head of a woman is the man.
In turn, the head of the Christ is God.
So how is wisdom seen in this arrangement?
Well, the watchtower said that there are two key elements in the headship arrangement.
And if you were to try to pick or choose what are those two key elements, what would you think?
Maybe authority and submission?
Well, that might seem logical, but that's not what the watchtower said.
It said, the two key elements are authority and accountability.
The watchtower went on to say this.
Jehovah has given Jesus authority over the congregation,
but Jesus is accountable to Jehovah for the way he treats us.
Jehovah has also given a husband authority over his wife and children,
but a husband is accountable both to Jehovah and Jesus for the way he treats his family.
So the wisdom is that there are checks and balances built into the arrangement itself.
For example, the husband's authority over his family is not absolute.
He cannot do whatever he wants or treat them however he wants just because he is the head.
Rather, he is accountable to Jehovah and Jesus for the way that he treats his family.
And for the spiritual man, that makes all the difference in the world.
And that helps him to discharge his responsibilities in a proper way.
So that's the first point.
There is great wisdom in the headship arrangement itself.
The second point is that the headship arrangement provides clear, dignified roles
for each member of the family.
Really, the headship arrangement is an expression of today's text.
Let's look at that again for a Corinthians 1440.
Let all things take place decently and by arrangement.
This is what the headship arrangement provides for the family.
For example, the wife in the family has a clear, dignified role in the family arrangement.
She has a place that is hers and she has full scriptural freedom to operate within that role.
And as husbands, don't we appreciate what our spiritual wives contribute to the family
operating within her God-given assignment?
How many times has the spiritual input of our wives helped us to avoid making a mistake
or helped us to see a matter from an angle that we would never have thought of on our own?
How many times does the spiritual input of our wives help us to make a better decision
or to see the need to do something loving for someone in need?
She's operating within her role, but what a significant impact she has on the joy,
on the success, on the reputation of our family.
So that's the second point.
The headship arrangement provides clear, dignified roles for each member of the family.
The third point is that the very foundation of the arrangement is love.
For example, turn with me please to the book of Ephesians, chapter 5.
In Notice, verse 25, how clearly Jehovah communicates to husbands how they are to carry out their assignment,
their role in the headship arrangement.
Ephesians 5, 25, it says, husbands, continue loving your wives.
Just as the Christ also loved the congregation and gave himself up for it.
So the headship arrangement clearly is not just a cold, efficient, organizational chart.
It is to be administered in love.
Love should be the centerpiece of the arrangement.
Love should never leave the arrangement, as the verse says, continue loving your wives.
Also, in verse 25, Jehovah makes it clear that husbands have the Christ to look to as an example
in the way he treated the congregation.
And essentially, Jehovah says, look at the Christ, you husbands.
That is how you are to love your wives always.
Well, some may feel oppressed by the headship arrangement, but as we've discussed,
it's not the arrangement.
That's it, fault.
It is a perfect loving arrangement.
It reflects Jehovah's wisdom.
It provides clear, dignified roles for each member, and it is to be administered in love.
So then, to make sure no one does feel oppressed in the arrangement, where does the responsibility
lie?
We let lies with those of us in the arrangement, doesn't it?
And on that point, Ephesians chapter 4, in verse 16, provides us some very good direction.
Ephesians 4, 16.
Of course, this is specifically talking about the body of the congregation, but we can
extract the principle and apply it to the family unit as well.
So here's what it says, Ephesians 4, 16, from him, all the body is harmoniously joined
together and made to cooperate through every joint that gives what is needed.
When each respective member functions properly, this contributes to the growth of the body
as it builds itself up in love.
What that verse says is certainly true about the human body, isn't it?
When every member of our body operates and functions properly, we get things done smoothly.
But have you ever had an injury?
For example, have you ever had your arm in hand in a cast?
Now trying to tie your shoes with one hand or button your shirt with one hand or type
on the computer becomes very awkward.
But when each member functions properly, now we can even think about it.
We can get things done as very smooth.
And so it is in the family arrangement as well.
When each member does their assigned role, as the verse says, functions properly, then
that contributes to the growth of the arrangement.
And of course, this is where the challenge comes in, because all of us are imperfect.
So none of us are naturally good husbands.
None of us are naturally good wives.
We have to make adjustments in our personality in our way of doing things so that we function
properly and contribute to the growth of the family.
And we do.
Don't we?
We work hard to do that.
For example, if a husband finds that his natural tendency is to be a bit strong in
his headship, maybe even domineering, or on the other hand, maybe he's the other way.
The husband finds that his natural tendency is to shy away from taking the lead or making
decisions.
Well, in either case, that husband will look to God's word, examine what he can do, make
adjustments so as to function properly in the headship arrangement, and contribute to
the growth of the family.
Similarly with a wife, if she finds that her natural tendency is to be a bit strong, maybe
a little bit talks over her husband or wants to correct his decisions.
Or on the other hand, maybe she finds that she could be contributing a bit more to the
family in a spiritual way, well, she'll do the same thing.
She'll examine God's word, see what adjustment she can make, function properly, and then contribute
to the growth of the family.
In these ways, each member of the arrangement functions properly to the success of the
headship arrangement and the family.
So yes, the headship arrangement is a good arrangement.
It is perfect, it is from Jehovah.
And as each one of us works hard to fulfill our role in the arrangement, we will see the
success of the arrangement grow, and we will thank Jehovah for his loving oversight of
our family.